#summary How to install jsonengine

== How to install jsonengine ==

The requirements for installing jsonengine are:

  * Windows, Mac or Linux PC with internet connection
  * Your Google account

jsonengine can be installed easily by the following steps and you can start using it instantly. No server-side programming or complex configuration required.

  * Installing the Java JDK
  * Installing the App Engine SDK for Java
  * Downloading jsonengine package
  * Registering your App Engine application ID
  * Uploading jsonengine (and your HTML client) to App Engine

=== Installing the Java JDK ===

jsonengine runs on Java 6. If you do not have installed Java 6 on your PC yet, download and install the Java SDK 6 from here:

  * [http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index.jsp Java SDK for Windows and Linux user]
  * [http://developer.apple.com/java/ Java SDK for Mac user]

After installing the JDK, please check if the following commands can be run on command prompt/shell and would show proper version numbers.

{{{
> java -version
}}}

{{{
> javac -version
}}}

=== Installing the App Engine SDK for Java ===

Download the App Engine SDK for Java. jsonengine supports SDK version 1.3.0 or later.

  * [http://code.google.com/intl/en/appengine/downloads.html#Google_App_Engine_SDK_for_Java App Engine SDK for Java]

Once you download the file, unpack the archive in a convenient location on your disk. It will create a directory named "appengine-java-sdk-x.x.x". In the following, the directory will be refered as _appengine-java-sdk-dir_.

=== Downloading jsonengine package ===

Download the latest jsonengine package from the download page.

  * [http://code.google.com/p/jsonengine/downloads/list jsonengine downloads]

Once you download the file, unpack the archive in a convenient location on your disk. It will create a directory named "jsonengine". In the following, the directory will be refered as _jsonengine-dir_.

=== Registering your App Engine application ID ===

jsonengine will be running as an App Engine application that is registered by your Google account. If you have not used App Engine yet, click the following link and sign up to App Engine with your Google account.

  * https://appengine.google.com/

Once you signed up with App Engine, create an application for jsonengine with the follwing steps:

  * Click the "Create an Application" button on "Applications Overview" page
  * Type your favorite Application Identifier (app id) and Application Title for the application. For example, if you name it as "my-jsonengine-appid", your jsonengine will be run on "http://my-jsonengine-appid.appspot.com". In the following, the app id will be refered as _my-jsonengine-appid_.
  * Click the "Check Availability" button to check if the app id is unique
  * Click the "Save" button and now your app id is registered

=== Uploading jsonengine (and your HTML client) to App Engine ===

Now you upload the jsonengine to App Engine. You may also upload your HTML content and client code (JS or Flash) to App Engine too.

  * Open _jsonengine-dir_/war/WEB-INF/appengine-web.xml file with an editor and insert your app id into the application element:

{{{
<application>my-jsonengine-appid</application>
}}}

  * _jsonengine-dir\war_ is the document root of your application. Copy your HTML contents into this directory to deploy them to App Engine. If you do not have anything to upload (in case that you just want to test jsonengine or your client is iPhone/iPad/Android app), you may skip this step.
  * change current directory to _appengine-java-sdk-dir_/bin
  * run appcfg tool to upload jsonengine

On Windows command prompt:
{{{
> cd appengine-java-sdk-dir\bin
> appcfg.cmd update jsonengine-dir\war
}}}

On Mac/Linux shell:
{{{
> cd appengine-java-sdk-dir/bin
> appcfg.sh update jsonengine-dir/war
}}}

  * Enter your Google username and password at the prompts. Once the updating has finished successfully, it shows a message "Update completed successfully."

=== Testing the jsonengine ===

Now your jsonengine is ready. You can check if it is working properly by accessing the following URL with your browser:

  * http://my-jsonengine-appid.appspot.com/ktrwjr/ (Internal Unit Test: click "Check All" button and "Run" to execute all the unit tests)
  * http://my-jsonengine-appid.appspot.com/_admin/jsonengine_test.html (External Unit Test from Admin Flash client)

Theses URLs will show a web page to run unit tests against the jsonengine. Please wait a while until it finishes all the tests, and if you see the green sign the service is working properly. If you see the red sign it indicates any failure on testing the features of jsonengine.